---
id: 863DA9EA-7FD1-46DA-87B5-EEAB4B0D91C9
creation-date: 2022-11-09T22:26:22 
type: concept
alias: ['Hashing', "Hash Index", "Hash Code"]
tags:  
- programming
- python
---

# Hashing 


> [!KEY] Hashable
> A hashable object is an object that cannot be changed/ mutated over the lifetime of a programme. Since the object cannot be mutated, it can be represented by a unique ID (_hash code_).

Hashing function (`hash(object)`) is the Python module that takes in an immutable object and return the unique hash code.

---
## Hashable Types

Object types that are immutable over the lifetime can be hashed. This includes data types like simple objects (`int`), flat sequences (`array`, `str`) and container sequences of immutable types (`set`). 

---
## 📏 Hash Code and Comparison

> [!example]
> Consider a Python class with lots of attributes. If we are to compare whether two instances of this class are equal, by comparing whether every attributes and structure are the same would be very inefficient as well as difficult.

==Hashing and hash code make complex comparison much simpler.==
If we assume that the class’s attributes are immutable once it is initialised, this class could then be hashed (through implementing `__hash__`) and represented a unique ID (hash code). Since a hashing function would return an identical ID if the same object has been passed into the function, this makes comparison much efficient (since it is just a comparison of two numbers).

This also indicates why `list` in Python is a "slow" data structure. since `list` is mutable and cannot be hashed into a single index value. All the elements inside needs to be checked iteratively. 
While a `set` can only contain immutable objects, comparison can operate through hash codes comparison.

---
## ℹ️ Resources
-   [Fluent Python](https://www.notion.so/Fluent-Python-7ed2fe8ae0a745f7b689f5adf2909330) (p84)
-   [What does hash do in python?](https://www.notion.so/What-does-hash-do-in-python-e1eb0242f09c4a6ca3245cbc748f70cd)