---
id: 9784DC6E-E001-4737-95E9-BC74B9FE06A0
creation-date: 2022-11-10T22:43:34 
type: summary
tags:  
- 
---

# Range - David Epstein 


- Overspecialisation makes each specialised system incommunicable with the larger entity, thus lead to tragedic results as the focuses of the problems are being narrowed 
- If you have a hammer, everything would look like a nail.
- <span style="color:red">**Single Loop Learning**</span>: where one is more favourable to the first solution that comes up to one's mind (availability bias)
- When instant feedbacks are given to immeidate success, we are likely just going to stick with it without further interest in understanding the underlying reasons or mechanism behind it.  
- Understanding the rationale behind is the key to being able to generalise skills and knowledge to different other scenarios and domains
- Breakthrough level creativity does not come from more speciality but comes from the ability to intergrate different knowledge and understanding into a complex problem.
- The richer of our knowledge on how to make classification (typology), it helps to make different knowledge more connected and accessible. 
- <span style="color: red">Femi Thinking</span>: Try to break down a problem to something that one knows of. Generate some similar guess about each subset of the problem, that one has information of. 
- The bigger the *mistakes without hints* give the best learning outcome. 
  - it primes the brain into learning mode, possible because the brain was in mannual state when there is uncertainty
  - therefore one needs to hardwire mistakes to the learning concepts
- A counter intuitive way to learn for long term understanding is to: 
  1. Learn first 
  2. Get yourself into distraction by doing other equally difficult tasks 
  3. Learn again
- Important ideas about learning:
  - Spacing: make learning less concentrated and sparse
  - Testing: make mistakes rather than self-proving of what one knows of
  - Make Connections: understand the rationale rather than the operation of what one is learning
- Mix things up. Interlearning provides the best outcome because one are focused to generate connections with the concepts learnt.

**Analogy Thinking**

- making analogy is good when the analogies one make is far away from our existing domain knowledge. 
- Usually the first analogy comes to one's mind would not be sufficient enough to see the problem in a different perspective because it is drawn from our closest knowledge and the highly related to the problem at hand. 
- To get our of the self-serving bias, one should consider scenario that shares similar features 


---
## ℹ️ Resources
- 