---
creation-date: 2023-10-13T21:50:14
type: summary
aliases:
  - Container Images
  - How does Docker works?
tags:
  - containers
---
# How Does Docker works?

An *Image* is a file format that packaged everything needed for a virtual environment, e.g., 
- all the dependencies, packages, files
- all the OS files
- all the environment configurations
In essence, this is a large file that contains every for a Linux system to start and run. And a *Container* is a virtual environment that spawned from an Image. 


> [!Tip] Selling Softwares
> We can think of Image and Containers as selling a OS Software. An OS Software (Image) contains everything needed for a hardware to install and start running. Multiple hardwares (Containers) can be replicated and install OS to start running. 
> Containerisation technology is the analogy of this relationship when hardwares becomes "virtual-hardwares".


---
## Build

A *build* is to use a `Dockerfile` specification to create an Image. A `Dockerfile` works as an "blueprint" that defines how an environment should be created. The built Image would then be stored locally in a Host.

Assuming we have the `Dockerfile` at the current directory. To build a basic image: 

```shell
docker build -t <imageTag> .
```

- `-t` indicates the Image's Tag. This usually follows as the image name followed by a label version, e.g., `my-image:stable`, `my-image:0.0.1`

---
## Run 

To run a basic web server and create a Container from an Image: 

```shell
docker run \
	--rm \
	--name <uniqueName> \
	-d \
	-p <localPort>:<containerPort> \
	<imageTag>
```

- `--rm` - removes when container is stopped
- `--name` - unique name for the Container, such that we can reference it without using the Container UID
- `-d` - detach/ daemon mode, which runs the container at the background
- `-p` - attach Container virtual's port to local's port

---
## Save Image as Artefacts

Saving an Image would move Image(s) to a `tar` archive (aka Artefact). An *Artefact* is a compressed file of the Image that we created. Creating an Artefact has several usage: 

- the file can be published and shared to Image's Registries (e.g., DockerHub)
- clients can immediately create Containers using the Artefact without Building it

```shell
docker save -o <artefactName>.tar <imageTag>
```


---
## ℹ️  Resources
- [docker save | Docker Docs](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/save/)
- [Is Docker Still Relevant? - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cs2j-Rjqg94)