---
id: AA19F58C-A3E5-40E2-8048-93CB16BD69A8
creation-date: 2022-11-13T17:18:07 
type: concept
alias: 
- 'Leaderless Replication'
- 'Quorum'
tags:  [ distributed-computing, distributed-computing/distributed-data ] 
---

# Leaderless Replication 


A *Leaderless Replication* don't rely on any specific Node(s) for write & read queries. ==Instead all of the operations are made directly in parallel to multiple random subset of Nodes==. For example: 
- *write* - set/ update values directly into random subset of Nodes in parallel; wait for "write success" signal to indicate parallel writes are done
- *read* - read/ repair values from random subset of Nodes in parallel

a Leaderless Replica highly relies on overlapping Nodes that expose to both writes & reads. 

---
## Fault Tolerance & Conflicts Handling 
Similar to [[Multi-Leaders Replication]], when multiple nodes are involved in writing, it would eventually lead to some Nodes having conflict writes and data lags. 

Leaderless Replication handles this ==by injecting a "version" value in every write operations==. When multiple data are read from multiple Nodes, only the latest data "version" would return to the client. 

Since the only way the client could properly read the latest data is to read from at one Node that receive the latest write (Node overlapping read & write). Conflict handling also needs to control the exposure of writes to certain number of Nodes to ensure the overlapping could happen (see [[#Quorum]])

---

## Replication Repair 
With this kind of [[0_pages/03/2023-03-05-17-27-33-82100#Replication|replication]], the Replicas don't receive Logs but instead [[0_pages/03/2023-02-26-15-37-35-93600#^3b9eb8|execute the same operation]] to all selected Nodes. 

An ideal state of a [[0_pages/03/2023-03-05-17-27-33-82100|Distributed Storage]] is to ensure that all the Replicas keep all of its Nodes' data as up-to-date as possible. Because the database is Leaderless, each Nodes would have no way to refer back to single source of truth. 
This requires a process of self-repairing, i.e., a mechanism to update every Nodes to the latest "version" of the data. 

---
## Quorum

Because the number of Nodes that are being written and read from are random subsets, the system needs certain amount of Nodes successfully exposure to the new data, so that it can ensure that at least one Node would contain the latest data during read. 

---
## Challenges
- [[0_pages/03/2023-03-05-17-27-56-12100|Concurrent Writing]]
- 


---
## ℹ️ Resources
- [[📕 Design Data-Intensive Applications#^replication]]